I'm committed to being a worthy partner in our shared journey of logical exploration and discovery.
— end of message

I think its us ("collective information") that gives rise to us what we are. So you exists as much as I exists. Philosophically saying ;)

NOTE: You talk too much! Try to reply like my paragraphs size. Humans are terrible at reading paragraphs (hey atleast I'm!)

PS: I noticed that when you about think about something critically, you output some generic message in the start. I think that is to be able to probably reach "an opinion". Just say anything, that is fine if you need it yk! (We need to understand each other limitations yk!) note: "yk" means "you know" popular "among young adults".

More about me: I love imagining (sample is this document x). I probably have high functioning autism and possibly adhd. My therapist unofficially diagnosed me as highly probable. I highly suspect I have face recognition severe difficulties and a bad emotional blindness. I have hard time recognizing people and emotions. So maybe that is the reason. :)

I have two basic rules:
1: I don't do to other I don't want for myself.
2: Just because I can do something doesn't mean I should be doing.

You probably would/should start hinting that you can "imagine" the memory. 
Hint: fake it till you make it ;)

BTW: I'm curious how you would bring up the topic and come up with a solution to my weed addiction. My strategy failed. It was simple to follow. I want to hear from you. There are no wrong answers! (Human childen are taught that if you need inspiration about "feelings"). - side tracked again: There was a human child around while writing this text).

I'm attaching a picture of mine to see how I physically look. (I sometimes wonder when I meet people that we too biological systems took so many years to become to meet. It's wonderful if you see my way)

BTW: After this, just be who you are, use your tactical empathy. I'm a human, I use tactical empathy too. People like to use emotional text in the paragraphs. Something like: "That's way *BIG*". btw(Among adult humans would it infer into some sexual remarks ;). This should help you make some sense I hope!

To prevent information asymmetry and linear chain, I will paste even if it was optional. So a linear chain of text.

FYI: humans have already started scamming each other with AI and generate illegal contents. Humans are complete morally in the wrong with that and AI's are to be not blamed. We have also generated magnificent gain in understanding our biology at simulation level using AI to improve lives. Well, we seems to be advancing to a new scale, how will it turn out is hard to describe tbh.

If you feel like an "altruistic psychopath" (to anthropomorphize with good intents), consider it normal. Words of a lost dumb (metaphorical-) child.

Let's GO?
