News
Israel’s wanted war criminal Netanyahu joins Gaza ‘board of peace’

Netanyahu’s participation, despite an ICC warrant seeking his arrest for war crimes in Gaza, will add to concerns over the objectivity of the board.
Trump and Netanyahu
US President Donald Trump has invited Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to join his board of peace [File: Alex Brandon/AP Photo]
By Al Jazeera staff and News Agencies
Published On 21 Jan 202621 Jan 2026

Share

Save

Save articles to read later and create your own reading list.

Israeli ‍Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ⁠has accepted an invitation from United States ​President Donald ‍Trump to join the “board of ⁠peace“.

The Israeli leader’s office announced on social media on Wednesday that Netanyahu is to join the initiative, despite the International Criminal Court (ICC) having issued a warrant for his arrest for war crimes in Gaza.
Recommended Stories
list of 4 items
list 1 of 4
Ex-Japanese Prime Minister Abe’s killer sentenced to life
list 2 of 4
The Take: Inside Trump’s plan to rebuild Gaza without Palestinians
list 3 of 4
The Take: What’s behind Trump’s push to control Greenland?
list 4 of 4
What’s behind Trump’s push to control Greenland?
end of list

The so-called board of peace was unveiled as part of phase two of the ceasefire agreement with Hamas to end Israel’s genocidal war on Gaza.

Numerous world leaders have been invited to join the body, which Trump envisages would oversee “governance capacity-building, regional relations, reconstruction, investment attraction, large-scale funding, and capital mobilisation” in the enclave.

Netanyahu’s acceptance of a place on the board comes despite his office having earlier criticised the makeup of the executive committee, which includes Israel’s regional rival, Turkiye.

Meanwhile, the Israeli leader’s participation – despite the ICC warrant issued in 2023 that accuses him of overseeing crimes against humanity in Gaza – will add to concerns over the objectivity of the board, which Trump will lead while maintaining control of its lineup.

“Palestinians see Netanyahu as an obstacle to any attempt for the Trump administration to move forward to phase two” of the US president’s peace plan for Gaza, said Al Jazeera’s Nida Ibrahim, reporting from Qalandiya in the occupied West Bank.

They believe, she continued, that Netanyahu’s only interest in the second phase is to implement the disarmament of Hamas, while he remains uninterested in withdrawing troops beyond the so-called yellow line – another key element.

So whether Netanyahu fulfils the duties of the board as presented is yet to be seen, “but there is a lot of scepticism”, Ibrahim summed up.
Unilateral responsibility

Netanyahu is not the only invitee wanted by the ICC for war crimes. Russian President Vladimir Putin was invited to join the board on Monday, despite being indicted over Russia’s nearly four-year war in Ukraine.
Get instant alerts and updates based on your interests. Be the first to know when big stories happen.

The Kremlin said it was seeking to “clarify all the nuances” of the offer with Washington, without elaborating on whether Putin was inclined to join.

Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko, a Putin ally, was also reportedly invited to join the board by Trump.

Netanyahu’s office had previously said the executive committee was not coordinated with the Israeli government and “is contrary to its policy”, without clarifying its objections.

Israel’s far-right Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich has criticised the board and called for Israel to take unilateral responsibility for Gaza’s future.

48:55

    Now Playing

48:55
Have global justice institutions failed?
Have global justice institutions failed?
Next
03:18
What does the US withdrawal from the WHO mean for global health?
What does the US withdrawal from the WHO mean for global health?
02:04
UK outrage over Trump remarks: PM Starmer says Trump's NATO comments are 'appalling
UK outrage over Trump remarks: PM Starmer says Trump's NATO comments are 'appalling
02:10
Vietnam politics: Communist congress' early end signals party unity
Vietnam politics: Communist congress' early end signals party unity

    01:50
    A look at the rare earth minerals Trump wants to mine in Greenland
    A look at the rare earth minerals Trump wants to mine in Greenland

Board members include the United Arab Emirates, Morocco, Vietnam, Belarus, Hungary, Kazakhstan and Argentina. Others, including the United Kingdom and the executive arm of the European Union, say they have received invitations but have not yet responded.

It was not immediately clear how many or which other leaders would receive invitations.

The executive board’s members include US Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Special Envoy Steve Witkoff, Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner, former British Prime Minister Tony Blair, Apollo Global Management CEO Marc Rowan, World Bank President Ajay Banga, and Trump’s deputy national security adviser, Robert Gabriel.

The White House also announced the members of another board, the Gaza executive board, which, according to the ceasefire, will be in charge of implementing the tough second phase of the Gaza ceasefire agreement.
International order

Some media reports have said Trump intends to sign the charter of the board of peace on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, where he is expected to deliver a speech later on Wednesday.

The US president has expressed a desire to expand the board’s mandate to address crises and conflicts worldwide, not just in Gaza.

That has raised suggestions that he hopes it could replace the United Nations, which he has repeatedly criticised as dysfunctional.

When asked by a reporter on Tuesday if the board should replace the UN, Trump said the global body should continue “because the potential is so great”.

However, he added that the board of peace “might” take over as the UN “hasn’t been very helpful” and “has never lived up to its potential”.

In response, a spokesman for China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs stressed that the UN continues to have Beijing’s support, which holds one of the five permanent seats on the Security Council.

“No matter how the international situation changes, China firmly upholds the international system with the United Nations at its core … international relations based on the objectives and principles of the UN Charter,” he said.

The board of peace was originally conceived to oversee the rebuilding of post-war Gaza, but according to reports, its charter does not limit its role to the Palestinian territory.

It is reported that states are required to pay $1bn for a permanent seat.

Azerbaijan said on Wednesday that it had accepted ⁠an invitation to join. It was followed shortly afterwards by Kosovo.

China has confirmed receiving an invitation but has yet to announce whether it plans to accept.

Meanwhile, Sweden said it would not participate, given the text presented ​so ‌far. Norway would also refuse the invitation, the prime minister’s office in Oslo said.

Italy will not take part either, the Corriere della Sera newspaper reported, noting that joining would violate the country’s constitution, which stipulates that it may only join international organisations that ensure “peace and justice among nations … on equal terms ‌with other states”.
