Ambassador Mike Huckabee
@GovMikeHuckabee
In response to the statement of non-evangelical churches in Israel, I issued the following.  I hope you will read prayerfully.

I love my brothers and sisters in Christ from traditional, liturgical churches and respect their views, but I do not feel any sect of the Christian faith should claim exclusivity in speaking for Christians worldwide or assume there is only one viewpoint regarding faith in the Holy Land.  Personally I’m part of a global and growing evangelical tradition that believes the authority of Scripture and the faithfulness of God in keeping His covenants.  That includes His covenant with Abraham and the Jewish people.  My Christian faith is built on the foundation of Judaism and without it, Christianity would not exist.  Without the Judeo-Christian worldview, there would be no Western Civilization, and without Western Civilization, there would be no America.  The thought that God is even capable of breaking a covenant is anathema to those of us who embrace Holy Scripture as the authority of the church.  If God can or would break His covenant with the Jews, then what hope would Christians have that He would keep His covenant with us?  Labels such as “Christian Zionism” are too often used in a pejorative manner to disparage free-church believers, of which there are millions across the planet.  Christians are followers of Christ and a Zionist simply accepts that the Jewish people have a right to live in their ancient, indigenous, and Biblical homeland.  It’s hard for me to understand why every one who takes on the moniker “Christian” would not also be a Zionist.  It’s not a commitment to a particular government or government policy, but to the Biblical revelation as given to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.  In my faith, there is certainly room for those who “butter their bread” differently than me, and I would hope that there would be room in the hearts of other church bodies for me.  We need to unite in those truths that should be agreed upon, such as the sanctity of life, the sacred act of marriage, the autonomy of the individual, the desire to lift up every human and alleviate human suffering, and the belief that grace is God’s gift to us all.  Please share with others and "Pray for the peace of Jerusalem!"
